Melanie: Why are you late?
Rebecca: You're not going to like the answer.
Melanie: I already know the answer.
Rebecca: I missed the bus.
Melanie: I don't doubt it, no bus stops near Brad's. You spent the night, the alarm didn't work. Or maybe it did.
MONICA: There's nothing to tell! He's just some guy I work with!
JOEY: C'mon, you're going out with the guy! There's gotta be something wrong with him!
CHANDLER: So does he have a hump? A hump and a hairpiece?
Rebecca: I didn't sleep with him.
Melanie: Girl, there's...
Rebecca: I missed the bus!
Melanie: There's something either very wrong with you, or there's something very wrong with him.
Rebecca: There's nothing wrong with him.
PHOEBE: Wait, does he eat chalk?
Melanie: Please tell me you know that for a fact.
Rebecca: Melanie, I gotta go.
PHOEBE: Just, 'cause, I don't want her to go through what I went through with Carl- oh!
MONICA: Okay, everybody relax. This is not even a date. It's just two people going out to dinner and- not having sex.
CHANDLER: Sounds like a date to me.
CHANDLER: Alright, so I'm back in high school, I'm standing in the middle of the cafeteria, and I realise I am totally naked.
ALL: Oh, yeah. Had that dream.
CHANDLER: Then I look down, and I realise there's a phone... there.
Melanie: You're lying aren't you?
Rebecca: I wouldn't lie to you.  Good morning guys!
JOEY: Instead of...?
CHANDLER: That's right.
Class: Good morning Miss Rebecca!
Rebecca: Everybody's in their seats?
JOEY: Never had that dream.
Class: Yes!
Rebecca: Ok, Sidney, why don't you tell us what you did this weekend. Come on, Sidney, we know you're not shy.
Sidney: How come we always have to tell you what we did, and you never tell us what you did?
PHOEBE: No.
Class:
Rebecca: Ok, I had a really great weekend, but you can't tell Miss Melanie, ok?
CHANDLER: All of a sudden, the phone starts to ring. And it turns out it's my mother, which is very weird, because- she never calls me!
ROSS:  Hi.
JOEY: This guy says hello, I wanna kill myself.
Sidney: What did you do?
MONICA: Are you okay, sweetie?
ROSS: I just feel like someone reached down my throat, grabbed my small intestine, pulled it out of my mouth and tied it around my neck...
Rebecca: I made a new friend. It's so much fun to make new friends, isn't it?
Class: Yeah, Yes, etc.
Girl 2: Did you tell you mom and dad about your new friend?
Rebecca: Absolutely! You should never keep anything from your parents. And I told them
Class:
CHANDLER: Cookie?
Rebecca: Wh..
MONICA:  Carol moved her stuff out today.  Let me get you some coffee.
PHOEBE: Ooh! Oh!
Class
Rebecca:
Class:
ROSS: No, no don't! Stop cleansing my aura! No, just leave my aura alone, okay? I'll be fine, alright? Really, everyone. I hope she'll be very happy.
Class: C, A, T, H
Sidney: ¡°The.¡±
Boy: We know that word, ¡°the.¡±
Wilson: 29 year old female, first seizure one month ago, lost the ability to speak. Babbled like a baby. Present deterioration of mental status.
MONICA: No you don't.
House: See that? They all assume I'm a patient because of this cane.
Wilson: So put on a white coat like the rest of us.
House: I don't want them to think I'm a doctor.
Wilson: You see where the administration might have a problem with that attitude.
House: People don't want a sick doctor.
Wilson: Fair enough. I don't like healthy patients. The 29 year old female¡¦
House: The one who can't talk, I liked that part.
ROSS: No I don't, to hell with her, she left me!
JOEY: And you never knew she was a lesbian...
Wilson: She's my cousin.
House: And your cousin doesn't like the diagnosis. I wouldn't either. Brain tumor, she's gonna die, boring.
Wilson: No wonder you're such a renowned diagnostician. You don't need to actually know anything to figure out what's wrong.
House: You're the oncologist; I'm just a lowly infectious disease guy.
Wilson: Hah, yes, just a simple country doctor. Brain tumors at her age are highly unlikely.
House: She's 29. Whatever she's got is highly unlikely.
Wilson: Protein markers for the three most prevalent brain cancers came up negative.
ROSS: No!! Okay?! Why does everyone keep fixating on that? She didn't know, how should I know?
House: That's an HMO lab; you might as well have sent it to a high school kid with a chemistry set.
CHANDLER: Sometimes I wish I was a lesbian...  Did I say that out loud?
Wilson: No family history.
House: I thought your uncle died of cancer.
Wilson: Other side. No environmental factors.
JOEY: Alright Ross, look. You're feeling a lot of pain right now. You're angry. You're hurting. Can I tell you what the answer is?
JOEY: Strip joint! C'mon, you're single! Have some hormones!
House: That you know of.
Wilson: And she's not responding to radiation treatment.
House: None of which is even close to dispositive. All it does is raise one question. Your cousin goes to an HMO?
Wilson: Come on! Why leave all the fun for the coroner? What's the point of putting together a team if you're not going to use them? You've got three overqualified doctors working for you. Getting bored.
Foreman: It's a lesion.
House: And the big green thing in the middle of the bigger blue thing on a map is an island. I was hoping for something a bit more creative.
Foreman: Shouldn't we be speaking to the patient before we start diagnosing?
House: Is she a doctor?
ROSS: I don't want to be single, okay? I just... I just- I just wanna be married again!
CHANDLER: And I just want a million dollars!
Foreman: No, but¡¦
MONICA: Rachel?!
RACHEL: Oh God Monica hi! I just went to your building and you weren't there and then this guy with a big hammer said you might be here and you are, you are!
WAITRESS: Can I get you some coffee?
House: Everybody lies.
Cameron: Dr. House doesn't like dealing with patients.
Foreman: Isn't treating patients why we became doctors?
House: No, treating illnesses is why we became doctors, treating patients is what makes most doctors miserable.
MONICA:  De-caff.  Okay, everybody, this is Rachel, another Lincoln High survivor.  This is everybody, this is Chandler, and Phoebe, and Joey, and- you remember my brother Ross?
Foreman: So you're trying to eliminate the humanity from the practice of medicine.
RACHEL: Hi, sure!
House: If we don't talk to them they can't lie to us, and we can't lie to them. Humanity is overrated. I don't think it's a tumor.
ROSS: Hi.
Foreman: First year of medical school if you hear hoof beets you think ¡°horses¡± not ¡°zebras¡±.
MONICA: So you wanna tell us now, or are we waiting for four wet bridesmaids?
House: Are you in first year of medical school? No. First of all, there's nothing on the CAT scan. Second of all, if this is a horse then the kindly family doctor in Trenton makes the obvious diagnosis and it never gets near this office. Differential diagnosis, people: if it's not a tumor what are the suspects? Why couldn't she talk?
Chase: Aneurysm, stroke, or some other ischemic syndrome.
House: Get her a contrast MRI.
RACHEL: Oh God... well, it started about a half hour before the wedding. I was in the room where we were keeping all the presents, and I was looking at this gravy boat. This really gorgeous Lamauge gravy boat. When all of a sudden- Sweet 'n' Lo?- I realised that I was more turned on by this gravy boat than by Barry! And then I got really freaked out, and that's when it hit me: how much Barry looks like Mr. Potato Head. Y'know, I mean, he always looked familiar, but... Anyway, I just had to get out of there, and I started wondering 'Why am I doing this, and who am I doing this for?'.  So anyway I just didn't know where to go, and I know that you and I have kinda drifted apart, but you're the only person I knew who lived here in the city.
Cameron: Creutzfeld-Jakob disease.
Chase: Mad cow?
House: Mad zebra.
Foreman: Wernickie's encephalopathy?
MONICA: Who wasn't invited to the wedding.
House: No, blood thiamine level was normal.
RACHEL: Ooh, I was kinda hoping that wouldn't be an issue...
MONICA: Now I'm guessing that he bought her the big pipe organ, and she's really not happy about it.
RACHEL:  Daddy, I just... I can't marry him! I'm sorry. I just don't love him. Well, it matters to me!
Foreman: Lab in Trenton could have screwed up the blood test. I assume it's a corollary if people lie, that people screw up.
House: Re-draw the blood tests. And get her scheduled for that contrast MRI ASAP. Let's find out what kind of zebra we're dealing with here.
Cuddy: I was expecting you in my office 20 minutes ago.
House: Really? Well, that's odd, because I had no intention of being in your office 20 minutes ago.
CHANDLER:  Ooh, she should not be wearing those pants.
Cuddy: You think we have nothing to talk about?
House: No, just that I can't think of anything that I'd be interested in.
Cuddy: I sign your paychecks.
JOEY: I say push her down the stairs.
House: I have tenure. Are you going to grab my cane now, stop me from leaving?
RACHEL: C'mon Daddy, listen to me! All of my life, everyone has always told me, 'You're a shoe! You're a shoe, you're a shoe, you're a shoe!'. And today I just stopped and I said, 'What if I don't wanna be a shoe? What if I wanna be a- a purse, y'know? Or a- or a hat! No, I'm not saying I want you to buy me a hat, I'm saying I am a ha- It's a metaphor, Daddy!
Cuddy: That would be juvenile.
Cuddy: I can still fire you if you're not doing your job.
House: I'm here from 9 to 5.
Cuddy: Your billings are practically nonexistent.
House: Rough year.
ROSS: You can see where he'd have trouble.
RACHEL: Look Daddy, it's my life. Well maybe I'll just stay here with Monica.
MONICA: Well, I guess we've established who's staying here with Monica...
RACHEL: Well, maybe that's my decision. Well, maybe I don't need your money. Wait!! Wait, I said maybe!!
Cuddy: You ignore requests for consults.
House: I call back. Sometimes I misdial.
Cuddy: You're 6 years behind on your obligation to this clinic.
MONICA: Just breathe, breathe.. that's it. Just try to think of nice calm things...
PHOEBE:  Raindrops on roses and rabbits and kittens, ..bluebells and sleighbells and- something with mittens... La la la la...
RACHEL: I'm all better now.
PHOEBE:  I helped!
House: See, I was right, this doesn't interest me.
Cuddy: 6 years, times 3 weeks; you owe me better than 4 months.
MONICA: Okay, look, this is probably for the best, y'know? Independence. Taking control of your life.
JOEY:  And hey, you need anything, you can always come to Joey. Me and Chandler live across the hall. And he's away a lot.
House: It's 5:00. I'm going home.
Cuddy: To what?
House: Nice.
Cuddy: Look, Dr. House, the only reason that I don't fire you is because your reputation still worth something to this hospital.
House: Excellent, we have a point of agreement. You aren't going to fire me.
Cuddy: Your reputation won't last up if you don't do your job. The clinic is part of your job. I want you to do your job.
House: Well, like the philosopher Jagger once said, ¡°You can't always get what you want.¡±
Rebecca: You're not my doctor. Are you Dr. House?
Chase: Thankfully no. I'm Dr. Chase.
Cameron: Dr. House is the head of diagnostic medicine. He's very busy, but he has taken a keen interest in your case.
MONICA: Joey, stop hitting on her! It's her wedding day!
Foreman: We inject gadolinium into a vein. It distributes itself throughout your brain and acts as a contrast material for the magnetic resonance imagery.
Cameron: Basically, whatever's in your head, lights up like a Christmas tree.
Foreman: It might make you feel a little light-headed.
Nurse: Dr. Cameron. I'm sorry I have to stop you, there's a problem.
JOEY: What, like there's a rule or something?
House: You pulled my authorization.
CHANDLER: Please don't do that again, it's a horrible sound.
Cuddy: Yes, why are you yelling?
House: No MRIs, no imaging studies, no labs.
Cuddy: You also can't make long distance phone calls.
PAUL:  It's, uh, it's Paul.
House: If you're gonna fire me at least have the guts to face me.
Cuddy: Or photocopies; you're still yelling.
MONICA: Buzz him in!
JOEY: Who's Paul?
ROSS: Paul the Wine Guy, Paul?
House: I'm ANGRY! You're risking a patient's life.
MONICA: Maybe.
Cuddy: I assume those are two separate points.
House: You showed me disrespect, you embarrassed me and as long as I'm still work here you have¡¦
Cuddy: Is your yelling designed to scare me because I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be scared of. More yelling? That's not scary. That you're gonna hurt me? That's scary, but I'm pretty sure I can outrun ya.
Cuddy: Oh, I looked into that philosopher you quoted, Jagger, and you're right, ¡°You can't always get what you want,¡± but as it turns out ¡°if you try sometimes you get what you need.¡±
House: So, because you want me to treat patients, you aren't letting me treat patients.
JOEY: Wait. Your 'not a real date' tonight is with Paul the Wine Guy?
Cuddy: I need you to do your job.
House: Do the MRI, she folded.  I've gotta do four hours a week in this clinic until I make up the time I've missed. 2054. I'll be caught up in 2054.  You better love this cousin a whole lot.
ROSS: He finally asked you out?
MONICA: Yes!
Cameron: All right Rebecca,  we know you may feel a little claustrophobic in there, but we need you to remain still.
Chase:  Ok, we're gonna begin.
Rebecca: I don't feel so good.
Chase: It's all right. Just try to relax.
Cameron: Rebecca?  Rebecca?  Rebecca! Get her out of there.
CHANDLER: Ooh, this is a Dear Diary moment.
Chase: Ah she probably fell asleep; she's exhausted.
Cameron: She was claustrophobic 30 seconds ago, she's not sleeping. We gotta get her out of there!
MONICA: Rach, wait, I can cancel...
Chase: It'll just be another minute.
RACHEL: Please, no, go, that'd be fine!
Cameron: She's having an allergic reaction to gadolinium. She'll be dead in two minutes.
MONICA:  Are, are you okay? I mean, do you want me to stay?
ROSS:  That'd be good...
Foreman: Hold her neck.
MONICA:  Really?
ROSS:  No, go on! It's Paul the Wine Guy!
Cameron: Oh, she's ashen.
Foreman: She's not breathing. Epi point five.
Cameron: Come on, I can't ventilate.
Foreman: Too much edema, where's the surgical airway kit?
Chase: Yep, coming.
MONICA: Hi, come in! Paul, this is.. ... everybody, everybody, this is Paul.
Chase: Good call.
ALL: Hey! Paul! Hi! The Wine Guy! Hey!
Chase: We'll get that tube out of your throat later today.
Cameron: Just get some rest for now.
CHANDLER: I'm sorry, I didn't catch your name. Paul, was it?
MONICA:  Two seconds.
House: Told you, can't trust people.
Cameron: She probably knew she was allergic to gadolinium, figured it was an easy way to get someone to cut a hole in her throat.
PHOEBE: Ooh, I just pulled out four eyelashes. That can't be good.
ROSS: So Rachel, what're you, uh... what're you up to tonight?
House: Can't get a picture, gonna have to get a thousand words.
Foreman: You actually want me to talk to the patient? Get a history?
House: We need to know if there's some genetic or environmental causes triggering an inflammatory response.
Foreman: I thought everybody lied?
RACHEL: Well, I was kinda supposed to be headed for Aruba on my honeymoon, so nothing!
ROSS: Right, you're not even getting your honeymoon, God.. No, no, although, Aruba, this time of year... talk about your-  -big lizards... Anyway, if you don't feel like being alone tonight, Joey and Chandler are coming over to help me put together my new furniture.
CHANDLER:  Yes, and we're very excited about it.
House: Truth begins in lies. Think about it.
Foreman: That doesn't mean anything,does it?
House: 12:52 PM Dr. House checks in, please write that down. Do you have cable TV here somewhere? General Hospital starts in 8 minutes.
Cuddy: No TV, but we've got patients.
RACHEL: Well actually thanks, but I think I'm just gonna hang out here tonight..
House: Can't you give out the aspirin yourself? I'll do paperwork.
ROSS: Okay, sure.
Cuddy: I made sure your first case was an interesting one.
House: Cough just won't go away, runny nose looks a funny color.
Cuddy: Patient admitted complaining of back spasms.
House: I think I read about something like that in the New England Journal of Medicine.
Cuddy: Patient is orange.
House: The color?
JOEY: Hey Pheebs, you wanna help?
Cuddy: No, the fruit.
House: You mean yellow; it's jaundice.
Cuddy: I mean orange.
PHOEBE: Oh, I wish I could, but I don't want to.
ROSS:  I'm supposed to attach a brackety thing to the side things, using a bunch of these little whim guys. I have no brackety thing, I see no whim guys whatsoever and- I cannot feel my legs.
JOEY: What's this?
House: Well, how orange?
Cuddy: Exam room 1.
Orange Guy: I was playing golf and my cleat got stuck. I mean, it hurt a little but I kept playing. The next morning I could barely stand up. Well, you're smiling so I take it that means this isn't serious.
Orange Guy: What's that? What are you doing?
House: Painkillers.
Orange Guy: Oh, for you, for your leg.
House: No, ¡®cause they're yummy. You want one? It'll make your back feel better.
House: Unfortunately, you have a deeper problem. Your wife is having an affair.
Orange Guy: What?!
CHANDLER: I have no idea.
JOEY: Done with the bookcase!
House: You're orange, you moron! It's one thing for you not to notice, but if your wife hasn't picked up on the fact that her husband has changed color, she's just not paying attention. By the way, do you consume just a ridiculous amount of carrots and mega-dose vitamins?
House: The carrots turn you yellow, the niacin turns you red. Get some finger-paints and do the math. And get a good lawyer.
CHANDLER: All finished!
ROSS:  This was Carol's favourite beer. She always drank it out of the can, I should have known.
House: Deep breath.
Little boy: It's cold.
House: Has he been using his inhaler?
JOEY: Ross, let me ask you a question. She got the furniture, the stereo, the good TV- what did you get?
ROSS: You guys.
Mother: Not in the past few days. He's, um, only ten. I worry about children taking such strong medicine so frequently.
Little boy: What happened to your leg?
House: Your doctor probably was concerned about the strength of the medicine, too. She probably weighed that danger against the danger of not breathing. Oxygen is so important during those prepubescent years, don't you think? Ok, I'm gonna assume that no body's ever told you what asthma is, or if they have, you had other things on your mind. A stimulant triggers cells in your child's airways to release substances that inflame the air passages and cause them to contract. Mucus production increases, cell-lining starts to shed. But the steroids, the steroids¡¦stop the inflammation. The more often this happens¡¦
Mother: What? ¡°The more often this happens¡¦¡±what?¡±
House: Forget it. If you don't trust steroids, you shouldn't trust doctors.
Rebecca: My mother passed away three years ago. She had a heart attack, and my father broke his back doing construction.
Cameron: It's House, it's urgent. I'm sorry.
Cameron: You couldn't have knocked?
House: Steroids. Give her steroids, high doses of prednisone.
CHANDLER: Oh, man.
Foreman: You're looking for support for a diagnosis of cerebral vasculitus.
Cameron: Inflammation of the blood vessels in the brain is awfully rare. Especially for someone her age.
JOEY: You got screwed.
House: So is a tumor. Her SED rate was elevated.
MONICA: Oh my God!
Foreman: Mildly.
Cameron: That could mean anything, or nothing.
House: Yeah, I know. I have no reason to think that it's vasculitus except that it could be.
If the blood vessels were inflamed that's gonna look exactly like what we saw on the MRI from Trenton County, and the pressure's gonna cause neurological symptoms.
Cameron: You can't diagnose that without a biopsy.
House: Yes, we can, we treat it. If she gets better we know that we're right.
PAUL: I know, I know, I'm such an idiot. I guess I should have caught on when she started going to the dentist four and five times a week. I mean, how clean can teeth get?
Cameron: And if we're wrong?
House: We learn something else.
Rebecca: Why steroids?
MONICA: My brother's going through that right now, he's such a mess. How did you get through it?
Chase: Just part of your treatment. You haven't had many visitors. No boyfriend?
Rebecca: Three dates. I wouldn't have stood by him if her were vomiting all day.
PAUL: Well, you might try accidentally breaking something valuable of hers, say her-
Chase: Well, what abut work? You must have friends from work.
MONICA: -leg?
PAUL:  That's one way! Me, I- I went for the watch.
Rebecca: Pretty much everybody I like is 5 years old. A nurse said you're stopping my radiation.
Chase: We're just trying some alternative medications. So, where's your family from then?
Rebecca: Steroids aren't an alternative to radiation.
Chase: The tests weren't really conclusive.
Cameron: We're treating you for vasculitus, it's the inflammation of blood vessels in the brain.
MONICA: You actually broke her watch?
Rebecca: It's not a tumor? I don't have a tumor?
Chase: You should have told her the truth. It's a long shot guess.
Cameron:  Thank you.  If House is right, no harm, if he's wrong we've given a dying woman a couple days hope.
Chase: False hope.
RACHEL: Barry, I'm sorry... I am so sorry... I know you probably think that this is all about what I said the other day about you making love with your socks on, but it isn't... it isn't, it's about me, and I ju-  Hi, machine cut me off again... anyway...
ROSS: You know what the scariest part is? What if there's only one woman for everybody, y'know? I mean what if you get one woman- and that's it? Unfortunately in my case, there was only one woman- for her...
Cameron: If there was any other type available I would have given her that.
JOEY: What are you talking about? 'One woman'? That's like saying there's only one flavour of ice cream for you. Lemme tell you something, Ross. There's lots of flavours out there. There's Rocky Road, and Cookie Dough, and Bing! Cherry Vanilla. You could get 'em with Jimmies, or nuts, or whipped cream! This is the best thing that ever happened to you! You got married, you were, like, what, eight? Welcome back to the world! Grab a spoon!
Sidney: Why are you smelling Billy's pants?
Foreman: I'm not.
Sidney: Looked like you were.
ROSS: I honestly don't know if I'm hungry or horny.
Foreman: I was smelling the floor.
CHANDLER: Stay out of my freezer!
Sidney: Oh.
Foreman: Do you have any pets in this class?
Sidney: No, but we used to have a gerbil, but Carly L. dropped a book on it.
PAUL: Ever since she walked out on me, I, uh...
MONICA: What?..... What, you wanna spell it out with noodles?
Foreman: Careless.
PAUL: No, it's, it's more of a fifth date kinda revelation.
Sidney: Do you need to smell it?
MONICA: Oh, so there is gonna be a fifth date?
PAUL: Isn't there?
Foreman: No, I'm smelling for mold. I don't need to smell it.
Sidney: You can smell our parrot.
MONICA: Yeah... yeah, I think there is. -What were you gonna say?
Foreman: You said you didn't have any pets in this class.
Sidney: A parrot is a bird.
Foreman: Parrots are the primary source of psitticosis.
House: It's not the parrot.
Foreman: Psitticosis can lead to nerve problems and neurological complications.
PAUL: Well, ever-ev-... ever since she left me, um, I haven't been able to, uh, perform.  ...Sexually.
House: How many kids were there in the class?
Foreman: 20.
House: How many are home sick?
MONICA:  Oh God, oh God, I am sorry... I am so sorry...
PAUL: It's okay...
Foreman: None, but¡¦
House: None, but you think that 5 year olds are more serious about bird hygiene than their teacher. You've been through her home?
Foreman: She lives in Trenton. I can go up to her room tomorrow morning and ask her for the key.
MONICA: Being spit on is probably not what you need right now. Um... how long?
PAUL: Two years.
House: Would the police call for permission before dropping by to check out a crime scene?
Foreman: It's not a crime scene.
House: Far as I know she's running a Meth Lab out of her basement.
Foreman: She's a kindergarten teacher!
House: And if I was a Kindergarten student I would trust her implicitly.  Ok, I'll give you a for instance. The lady back there, who made your egg-salad sandwich. Her eyes look glassy, did you notice that? Now hospital policy is to stay home if you're sick, but if you're making $8.00 an hour, then ya kinda need the $8.00 an hour right? The sign in the bathroom says that employees must wash after using the facilities, but I figure that somebody who wipes snot on a sleeve isn't hyper concerned about sanitary conditions. So what do ya think? Should I trust her? I want you to check the patient's home for contaminants, garbage, medication¡¦
MONICA: Wow! I'm glad you smashed her watch!
Foreman: Whoa, oh, I can't just break into someone's house.
House: Isn't that how you got into the Felker's home?  Yeah, I know, court records are sealed, you were 16, it was a stupid mistake, but your old gym teacher has a big mouth. You should write a thank you note.
Foreman: I should thank him?
House: Well, I needed somebody around here with street smarts. Ok? Knows when you're being conned, knows how to con.
Foreman: I should sue you!
House: I'm pretty sure you can't sue somebody for wrongful hiring.
PAUL: So you still think you, um... might want that fifth date?
Foreman: But I'm pretty sure I can sue if you fire me for not breaking into some lady's house.
MONICA: ...Yeah. Yeah, I do.
House: I'm doing research. People are fascinating aren't they?
Cuddy: Why are you giving Adler steroids?
House: Well, she's my patient that's what you do with patients. You give them medicine.
Cuddy: You don't prescribe medicine based on guesses. At least we don't since Tuskeegee and Mengele.
House: You're comparing me to a Nazi? Nice.
Cuddy: I'm stopping the treatment.
House: She's my patient.
Cuddy: It's my hospital.
House: I did not get her sick, she is not an experiment, I have a legitimate theory about what's wrong with her.
Cuddy: With no proof.
TV: 'I, Joanie, take you, Charles, to be my lawful husband.' 'Do you take...'
House: There's never any proof. 5 different doctors come up with 5 different diagnoses based on the same evidence.
RACHEL: Oh...see... but Joanie loved Chachi! That's the difference!
Cuddy: You don't have any evidence. And nobody knows anything huh? Then how is it that you always assume you're right?
ROSS:  Grab a spoon. Do you know how long it's been since I've grabbed a spoon? Do the words 'Billy, don't be a hero' mean anything to you? Y'know, here's the thing. Even if I could get it together enough to- to ask a woman out,... who am I gonna ask?
House: I don't, I just find it hard to operate on the opposite assumption. And why are you so afraid of making a mistake?
Cuddy: Because I'm a doctor. Because when we make mistakes people die.
House: Come on.
House: People used to have more respect for cripples you know!  They didn't really.
Cuddy; So, how ya feeling?
Rebecca: Much better, thanks. Are you Dr. House? I thought he was a he, but¡¦?
Cuddy: No. Don't eat too much too fast.
Rebecca: Thank him for me.
Cuddy: Right.
RACHEL: Isn't this amazing? I mean, I have never made coffee before in my entire life.
House: Should I discontinue the treatment, boss?
CHANDLER: That is amazing.
JOEY: Congratulations. And while you're on a roll, if you feel like you gotta make like a Western omelette or something...  Although actually I'm really not that hungry...
Cuddy: You got lucky.
House: Cool, huh?
ALL: Morning. Good morning.
Wilson: Ok, once again.
Wilson: Good.
Rebecca: Am I ever gonna meet Dr. House?
Wilson:  Well, you might run into him at the movies or on the bus.
Rebecca: Is he a good man?
Wilson: He's a good doctor.
Rebecca: Can you be one without the other? Don't you have to care about people?
PAUL: Morning.
Wilson: Caring's a good motivator. He's found something else.  Feel this?
JOEY: Morning, Paul.
Rebecca: umhmm
Wilson: How about this?
Rebecca: umhmm
RACHEL: Hello, Paul.
Wilson: Ok squeeze.  Harder. All right.
Rebecca: He's your friend, huh?
Wilson: Yeah.
CHANDLER: Hi, Paul, is it?
MONICA: I had a really great time last night.
PAUL: Thank you. Thank you so much.
Rebecca: Does he care about you?
Wilson: I think so.
Rebecca: You don't know?
Wilson: As Dr. House likes to say, ¡°Everybody lies.¡±
Rebecca: It's not what people say, it's what they do.
Wilson:  Yes, he cares about me.
Rebecca: I can't see.  I can't see.
Wilson: A little help in here!
Foreman: Your chest will be sore for a while. We needed to shock you to get your heart going. Ok.  Can you arrange these to tell a story?
Foreman: She couldn't put them in order.
Chase: Could the damage have been caused by a lack of oxygen during her seizure?
Foreman: No, I gave her the same test 5 minutes later and she did just fine. The altered mental status is intermittent, just like the verbal skills.
Cameron: So, what now?
Foreman: Given the latest symptoms it's clearly growing deeper into the brain stem. Soon she won't be able to walk, she'll go blind permanently, and then the respiratory center will fail.
House: How long do we have?
MONICA: We'll talk later.
PAUL: Yeah.  Thank you.
Foreman: If it's a tumor we're talking a month, maybe two, if it's infectious a few weeks, if it's vascular that'll probably be fastest of all, maybe a week.
House: We're gonna stop all treatment.
Foreman: I still think it's a tumor. I think we should go back to the radiation.
JOEY: That wasn't a real date?! What the hell do you do on a real date?
Chase: She didn't respond to the radiation.
Foreman: Well, maybe we didn't see the effects until we started steroids.
House: No, it's not a tumor. The steroids did something, I just don't know what.
Foreman: So we're just gonna do nothing? We're just gonna watch her die?
House: Yeah, we're gonna watch her die. Specifically we're gonna watch how fast she's dying. You just told us, each diagnosis has its own timeframe. When we see how fast it's killing her we'll know what it is.
Cameron: And by then maybe there's nothing we can do about it.
MONICA: Shut up, and put my table back.
Foreman: There's go to be something we can do, something better than watching her die.
House: Well, I got nothing. How ¡®bout you?
Foreman: Bastard.  Oh, Cameron, I need you for a couple of hours.
Cameron: What's up?
Foreman: When you break into someone's house; it's always better to have a white chick with you.
Cameron: Adler's house? Why don't we just ask her for a key?
Foreman: For all we know she could be running a meth lab out of her basement.
Guy: I'm tired a lot.
ALL: Okayyy!
House: Any other reason you think you may have Chronic Fatigue Syndrome?
CHANDLER: All right, kids, I gotta get to work. If I don't input those numbers,... it doesn't make much of a difference...
Guy: It's kinda the definition isn't it?
RACHEL: So, like, you guys all have jobs?
MONICA: Yeah, we all have jobs. See, that's how we buy stuff.
JOEY: Yeah, I'm an actor.
House: It's kinda the definition of getting older.
Guy: I had a couple headaches last month, mild fever, sometimes I can't sleep, and I have trouble concentrating.
House: Apparently not while researching this stuff on the internet.
RACHEL: Wow! Would I have seen you in anything?
Guy: I was thinking it also might be fibromyalgia.
House:  Excellent diagnosis !
Guy: Is there anything for that?
House:  Ya know, I think there just might be.
JOEY: I doubt it. Mostly regional work.
MONICA: Oh wait, wait, unless you happened to catch the Reruns' production of Pinocchio.
House: I need 36 Vicodin, and change for a dollar.
Nurse:
CHANDLER: 'Look, Gippetto, I'm a real live boy.'
House: Exam room 2.
JOEY: I will not take this abuse.
Cameron: House doesn't believe in pretense. Figures life's too short and too painful. So he just says what he thinks.
Foreman: Nothing interesting in the garbage. ¡°I say what I think¡± is just another way of saying ¡°I'm an ass.¡±
Cameron: Well, if you wanted to be judged on your medical prowess only, maybe you shouldn't have broken into someone's home.
Foreman: I was 16! Don't know about ticks, but her dog's definitely got fleas.
Cameron: I managed to make it to 17 without a criminal record.
Foreman: Yeah? Well you obviously didn't grow up in my neighborhood.
Cameron: That's right. You stole a loaf of bread to feed your starving family right? You always eat during break-ins?
Foreman: Am I supposed to respect their food more than I respect their DVD players? You want some?
CHANDLER: You're right, I'm sorry.  'Once I was a wooden boy, a little wooden boy..'
Cameron: No.
Foreman: You gonna go hungry until she dies?
Cameron: No.
Foreman: You know what, after centuries of oppression, decades of civil rights marches, and more significantly living like a monk, never getting less than a 4.0 GPA, you don't think it's kind of disgusting I get one of the top jobs in the country because I'm a delinquent? We'll eat, then we'll tear up the carpet.
Cameron: You went to Hopkins right?
Foreman: Yep.
Cameron: So, you went to a better school than I did, got better grades than I did.
Foreman: So how'd you get the job? Did you stab a guy in a bar fight?
Foreman: Nothing.
House: It's not a tumor; she's getting worse too fast. She can't stand up.
MONICA: So how you doing today? Did you sleep okay? Talk to Barry? I can't stop smiling.
RACHEL: I can see that. You look like you slept with a hanger in your mouth.
Wilson: No toxins, no medication?
Foreman: Nothing that would explain these symptoms.
Wilson: Family history of neurological problems?
Foreman: Not that I could tell from her underwear drawer.
House: You said nothing that would explain these symptoms. What did you find that doesn't explain these symptoms?
Foreman: Dr. Wilson convinced you to treat this patient under false pretenses. Adler's not his cousin.
MONICA: I know, he's just so, so... Do you remember you and Tony DeMarco?
RACHEL: Oh, yeah.
Wilson: That's ridiculous. You can ask her yourself. Can we get back to¡¦
Foreman: She's not Jewish!
Wilson: Alice Adler's not Jewish?
MONICA: Well, it's like that. With feelings.
Foreman: I had ham at her apartment!
Wilson:  Dr. Foreman, a lot of Jews have non-Jewish relatives, and most of us don't keep kosher. I can see getting through high school without learning a thing about Jews, but medical school¡¦
RACHEL: Oh wow. Are you in trouble.
Foreman: Ok, maybe she's Jewish, but she's definitely not your cousin.
Wilson: Really? This guy's¡¦he¡¦
MONICA: Okay. Okay. I am just going to get up, go to work and not think about him all day. Or else I'm just gonna get up and go to work.
Foreman: You don't even know her name! You called her Alice; her name is Rebecca!
Wilson: Yes, yes, her name is Rebecca. I call her Alice.
[While this is going on House is very quiet and you can almost see that he is putting things together}
House: You idiot!
RACHEL: Oh, look, wish me luck!
Wilson: Hey¡¦listen¡¦
MONICA: What for?
House: Not you, him! You said you didn't find anything.
Foreman: Everything I found was in interrupted
House: You found ham.
Foreman: So?
RACHEL: I'm gonna go get one of those job things.
House: Where there's ham there's pork, where there's pork there's neurocysticercosis.
Chase: Tapeworm?! You think she's got a worm in her brain?
FRANNIE: Hey, Monica!
House: It fits. Could have been living there for years, it never occurred to me
Cameron: Millions of people eat ham every day. It's quite a leap to think that she's got a tapeworm.
MONICA: Hey, welcome back! How was Florida?
House: OK, Mr. Neurologist. What happens when you give steroids to a person who has a tapeworm?
FRANNIE: You had sex, didn't you?
Foreman: They, they get a little better and then they get worse.
MONICA: How do you do that?
Wilson: Just like Rebecca Adler did.
FRANNIE: So? Who?
House: In a typical case if you don't cook pork well enough you ingest live tapeworm larvae. They got these little hooks they grab onto your bowel, they live, they grow up, they reproduce.
Chase: Reproduce? There's only got one lesion, and it's nowhere near her bowel.
House: That's because this is not a typical case. Tapeworm can produce 20 to 30,000 eggs a day. Guess where they go.
MONICA: You know Paul?
Foreman: Out.
House: Not all of them. Unlike the larvae, the egg can pass right through the walls of the intestines and into the blood stream. And where does the blood stream go?
FRANNIE: Paul the Wine Guy? Oh yeah, I know Paul.
Cameron: Everywhere.
House: As long as it's healthy the immune system doesn't even know it's there. The worm builds a wall, uses secretions to shut down the body's immune response and control fluid flow. It's really kinda beautiful.
Foreman: As long as it's healthy, so what do we do? Call a vet and nurse the little guy back to health?
MONICA: You mean you know Paul like I know Paul?
House: It's too late for that. It's dying, and as it dies this parasite loses the ability to control of the host's defenses. The immune system wakes up and attacks the worm and everything starts to swell, and that is very bad for the brain.
Wilson: It could still be a hundred other things. The eosinophil count was normal.
FRANNIE: Are you kidding? I take credit for Paul. Y'know before me, there was no snap in his turtle for two years.
Chase: It's only abnormal in 30% of cases.
Wilson: Proving nothing.
JOEY: Of course it was a line!
House: No, no, no, no, you see, it fits, it's perfect! It explains everything.
Wilson: But it proves nothing.
House: I can prove it by treating it.
Wilson: No, you can't. I was just with her, she doesn't want any more treatments, she doesn't want any more experiments, she wants to go home and die.
House:  Will you excuse us, please?
House: I'm Dr. House.
Rebecca: It's good to meet you.
House: You're being an idiot. Ahem.  You have a tapeworm in your brain, it's not pleasant, but if we don't do anything you'll be dead by the weekend.
Rebecca: Have you actually seen the worm?
House: When you're all better I'll show you my diplomas.
Rebecca: You were sure I had vasculitus too. Now I can't walk and I'm wearing a
diaper. What's this treatment gonna do for me?
House: I'm not talking about a treatment; I'm talking about a cure. But because I might be wrong, you want to die.
Rebecca: What made you a cripple?
MONICA: Why?! Why? Why, why would anybody do something like that?
House: I had an infarction.
Rebecca: A heart attack?
House: It's what happens when the blood flow is obstructed. If it's in the heart it's a heart attack. If it's in the lungs it's a pulmonary embolism. If it's in the brain it's a stroke. I had it in my thigh muscles.
Rebecca: Wasn't there something they could do?
House: There was plenty they could do, if they made the right diagnosis, but the only symptom was pain. Not may people get to experience muscle death.
Rebecca: Did you think you were dying?
House: I hoped I was dying.
Rebecca: So you hide in your office, refuse to see patients because you don't like the way people look at you. You feel cheated by life so now you're gonna get even with the world. You want me to fight this. Why? What makes you think I'm so much better than you?
ROSS: I assume we're looking for an answer more sophisticated than 'to get you into bed'.
MONICA: Is it me? Is it like I have some sort of beacon that only dogs and men with severe emotional problems can hear?
House: When you're scared, you'll turn into me.
PHOEBE: All right, c'mere, gimme your feet.
Rebecca: I just want to die with a little dignity.
House: There's no such thing! Our bodies break down, sometimes when we're 90, sometimes before we're even born, but it always happens and there's never any dignity in it. I don't care if you can walk, see, wipe your own ass. It's always ugly, always.  You can live with dignity, we can't die with it.
House: No treatment.
MONICA: I just thought he was nice, y'know?
Foreman: Maybe we can get a court order, override her wishes. Claim she doesn't have the capacity to make this decision.
JOEY:  I can't believe you didn't know it was a line!
House: But she does.
Cameron: But we could claim that the illness made her mentally incompetent.
Foreman: Pretty common result.
RACHEL: Guess what?
House: That didn't happen here.
Wilson: He's not gonna do it. She's not just a file to him anymore. He respects her.
Cameron: So because you respect her, you're going to let her die?
ROSS: You got a job?
House: I solved the case, my work is done.
House: Patients always want proof, we're not making cars here, we don't give guarantees.
Chase: I think we can prove it's a worm. It's noninvasive, it's safe. I'm not completely sure but¡¦
House: Yeah, yeah, yeah what's the damn idea?
Chase: Have you ever seen a worm under an x-ray, a regular old no contrast 100-year-old technology x-ray? They light up like shotgun pellets. Just like on a contrast MRI.
RACHEL: Are you kidding? I'm trained for nothing! I was laughed out of twelve interviews today.
CHANDLER: And yet you're surprisingly upbeat.
RACHEL: You would be too if you found John and David boots on sale, fifty percent off!
Foreman: Which is the same thing as a CT scan, which we did, which proved nothing.
CHANDLER: Oh, how well you know me...
RACHEL: They're my new 'I don't need a job, I don't need my parents, I've got great boots' boots!
House: Worm cysts is the same density as the cerebrospinal fluid, we're not going to see anything in her head, but Chase is right, he's right, we should x-ray her, but we don't x-ray her brain, we x-ray her leg, worms love thigh muscle. If she's got one in her head I guarantee you there's one in her leg.
Chase: Hold still, Rebecca.
MONICA: How'd you pay for them?
Chase: This here is a worm larva.
RACHEL: Uh, credit card.
Rebecca: So, if it's in my leg, it's in my brain?
MONICA: And who pays for that?
RACHEL: Um... my... father.
MONICA: C'mon, you can't live off your parents your whole life.
RACHEL: I know that. That's why I was getting married.
Chase: Are you looking for a guarantee? It's there, probably been there 6 to 10 years.
PHOEBE: Give her a break, it's hard being on your own for the first time.
RACHEL: Thank you.
Rebecca: Could I have more?
PHOEBE: You're welcome. I remember when I first came to this city. I was fourteen. My mom had just killed herself and my step-dad was back in prison, and I got here, and I didn't know anybody. And I ended up living with this albino guy who was, like, cleaning windows outside port authority, and then he killed himself, and then I found aromatherapy. So believe me, I know exactly how you feel.
ROSS: The word you're looking for is 'Anyway'...
Chase: Probably. It's good news.
MONICA: You ready?
RACHEL: I don't think so.
Rebecca: What do we do now?
Chase: Now we get you better. Albendazole.
Rebecca: Two pills?
Chase: Yeah, every day for at least a month with a meal.
ROSS: C'mon, cut. Cut, cut, cut,...
ALL: Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut, cut, cut...
Rebecca: Two pills?
Chase: Yeah, possible side effects include abdominal pain, nausea, headache, dizziness, fever, and hair loss. We'll probably make you keep taking the pills even if you get every one of those.
Cameron: Why did you hire me?
MONICA: Welcome to the real world! It sucks. You're gonna love it!
MONICA: Well, that's it.
House: Does it matter?
Cameron: Kinda hard to work for a guy who doesn't respect you.
House: Why?
Cameron: Is that rhetorical?
RACHEL:  You gonna crash on the couch?
ROSS: No. No, I gotta go home sometime.
MONICA: You be okay?
ROSS: Yeah.
House: No, it just seems that way because you can't think of an answer. Does it make a difference why I think I'm a jerk? The only thing that matters is what you think. Can you do the job?
RACHEL: Hey Mon, look what I just found on the floor.  What?
MONICA: That's Paul's watch. You just put it back where you found it. Oh boy. Alright. Goodnight, everybody.
Cameron: You hired a black guy because he had a juvenile record.
House: No, it wasn't a racial thing, I didn't see a black guy. I just saw a doctor¡¦with a juvenile record. I hired Chase ¡®cause his dad made a phone call. I hired you because you are extremely pretty.
ROSS: Mmm.  Oh, no-
RACHEL: Sorry-
Cameron: You hired me to get into my pants?!
ROSS: No no no, go-
House: I can't believe that that would shock you. It's also not what I said. No, I hired you because you look good; it's like having a nice piece of art in the lobby.
Cameron: I was in the top of my class.
RACHEL: No, you have it, really, I don't want it-
House: But not THE top.
ROSS: Split it?
Cameron: I did an internship at the Mayo Clinic.
House: Yes, you were a very good applicant.
RACHEL: Okay.
ROSS: Okay.  You know you probably didn't know this, but back in high school, I had a, um, major crush on you.
Cameron: But not the best?
House: Would that upset you, really, to think that you were hired because of some genetic gift of beauty not some genetic gift of intelligence?
Cameron: I worked very hard to get where I am.
RACHEL: I knew.
House: But you didn't have to. People choose the paths that gain them the greatest rewards for the least amount of effort. That's a law of nature, and you defied it. That's why I hired you. You could have married rich, could have been a model, you could have just shown up and people would have given you stuff. Lots of stuff, but you didn't, you worked your stunning little ass off.
Cameron: Am I supposed to be flattered?
ROSS: You did! Oh.... I always figured you just thought I was Monica's geeky older brother.
RACHEL: I did.
ROSS: Oh. Listen, do you think- and try not to let my intense vulnerability become any kind of a factor here- but do you think it would be okay if I asked you out? Sometime? Maybe?
House: Gorgeous women do not go to medical school. Unless they're as damaged as they are beautiful. Were you abused by a family member?
Cameron: No!
RACHEL: Yeah, maybe...
House: Sexually assaulted?
Cameron: No.
House: But you are damaged, aren't you?
ROSS: Okay... okay, maybe I will...
Cameron: I have to go.
RACHEL: Goodnight.
Orange guy: I followed her. I couldn't stop thinking about what that doctor said.
Cuddy: I told you not to listen to him, he's an idiot.
Orange guy: I was ORANGE.
Cuddy: I don't want to know what you found out.
Orange guy: You don't care?
ROSS: Goodnight.
MONICA: See ya.... Waitwait, what's with you?
Cuddy: I'm your doctor, you've been good to me and good to this hospital, of course I care, but I don't see how this conversation can end well for me. Either your wife is having an affair, or she's not having an affair and you have come here because you rightly think I should fire him, but I can't even if it cost me your money, the son of a bitch is the best doctor we have.
ROSS: I just grabbed a spoon.
Chase: Feeling any better?
Rebecca: I can't complain.
Chase: As you know the hospital has certain rules, and as you also know we tend to ignore them, but I think this one's gonna be a little obvious unless we get your help.
JOEY: I can't believe what I'm hearing here.
PHOEBE:  I can't believe what I'm hearing here...
Cameron: If anyone asks, you have 11 daughters and 5 sons.
Rebecca: Hi, you guys!
Class: Hi!
MONICA: What? I-I said you had a-
Rebecca: Come here!
Rebecca: It's so good to see you guys! I missed you! Is this for me?
Rebecca: Oh, I love you guys.  I wanted to thank Dr. House, but he never visited again.
PHOEBE:  What I said...
Cameron: He cured you, you didn't cure him.
MONICA:  Would you stop?
Rebecca:  Ok, I want a hug and a kiss from every single one of you. Get up here right now!
Class:
Female Dr. on mini TV: There.
Male Dr on mini TV: Hold on.
PHOEBE: Oh, was I doing it again?
Female Dr. on mini TV: She's converted.
RACHEL:  Would anybody like more coffee?
House: You said she was your cousin. Why would you lie?
Wilson: It got you to take the case.
House: You lied to a friend to save a stranger, you don't think that's screwed up?
CHANDLER: Did you make it, or are you just serving it?
RACHEL: I'm just serving it.
Wilson: You've never lied to me?
ALL: Yeah. Yeah, I'll have a cup of coffee.
House: I NEVER lie.
CHANDLER: Kids, new dream... I'm in Las Vegas. I'm Liza Minelli-
